## Introduced myself to Qlik View and Qlik Sense Software

Qlik View and Qlik both are similar softwares. 
The only major difference they have is the technology that they are built upon, 
their UI/UX experience is also very different.
Qlik View was developed on .net.
Qlik Sense was developed using Javascript, HTML, etc 
making it more browser friendly or a better browser-based software.

The file format for Qlik View  is .qvw.
The fiel format for Qlik Sense is .qvf.

Qlik Sense comes in three types:
1. Desktop
2. Enterprise
3. Cloud

Types of Data Models:
1. Star Schema (Most preffered Model by Data Analyst while using Qlik)
2. Snowflake Schema

Types of Architecture Tiers:
1. Tier I Architecture
		Source ---> Sample(Script(ETL), Data Model, UI) having .qvf format
2. Tier II Architecture
		Script, Data MOdel ---> having .qvf format ---> Sample(Binary Load, UI) having .qvf format
		Binary load is fastest way to load data models into an application.
		One .qvf fiel can have only one Binary Load statement.
3. Tier III Architecture
		Source ---> Script(No ETL), Create Raw(QVL) having .qvf format ---> converted to .qvds format(Format for storing Extracted Data) 
		---> then back to .qvf format when needed making it independent of the Source Sample(Script, Data Model) 
		---> (Binary Load, Data Model, UI)

Qlik has one single engine for all backend work.

How does Qlik Compress the Data?
It replaces unique values in a column with a symbol, 
example replacing EID1000 in Employee table to 1 to save space.
It creates a Symbol table in the backend where each unique EID 
has a unique symbol.

Therefore, higher the number of unique keys, the lower is the compression.
The higher the duplicate keys, the higher the compression.

The maximum compression that can be possible stated by Qlik is 10:1, 
i.e. compressing 10 GB to 1 GB but only if certain conditions satisfy.

The Front Inteface is called HUB.

Publication is done by Admin ONLY.
Admin can add/seperate/group Application into various streams such HR, Sales, etc.







